bin dist related docs (#2684)
status-im/nim-beacon-chain: docs/the_nimbus_book/src/binaries.md

# Nimbus binaries

We currently have binaries available for Linux `AMD64`, `ARM` and `ARM64`, Windows `AMD64` and macOS (`AMD64` and `ARM64`).

You can find the latest release here: [https://github.com/status-im/nimbus-eth2/releases](https://github.com/status-im/nimbus-eth2/releases)

> Scroll to the bottom of the first release you see (no, not the nightly pre-release), and click on `Assets`. You should see a list that looks like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scroll to the bottom of the first (non-nightly) release you see, and click on `Assets`. You should see a list that looks like the following:
```

Author: My version is more clear.

Reviewer: Debatable. It's certainly more long-winded though

Author: And also more precise. There is no nightly release, just a nightly pre-release.

Reviewer 2: The whole construction of
> the first X (no, not the mistakable-for-X)

is problematic

Reviewer 2: To be clear, not in some grammatical way, or even due to clarity or concision or lack thereof, but because it's trying to paper over an underlying problem.

Author: Look here and try to document it in a memorable way: https://github.com/status-im/nimbus-eth2/releases

Reviewer 2: I agree, it's a mess. My first instinct would be to get the nightlies away from there, but from what I understand, that's been discussed and found impractical/infeasible.

Reviewer 2: Use https://github.com/status-im/nimbus-eth2/releases/latest ?

Author: Conceptually, nightlies are newer and newer stuff is on top.

Reviewer 3: @stefantalpalaru well, editing the release would both avoid the spammy email and the newness - we don't necessarily _want_ nightlies on top even if they're in some sense the newest

Author: If users can't find them, because they're buried under actual releases, why bother producing them?

Reviewer 3: because we can link to the directly, in the places we choose

Author: Right.

Reviewer 2: Defaults matter, and the top item in a list is a typical default. Having to direct people to the actual release to avoid the nightly trap makes these nightlies arguably more a liability than benefit, because as much as the release notes might specify that, well they're for people who really specifically want them and are willing to provide debug logs, etc, it will backfire and people who had no intention of using nightlies will do so, on mainnet, with their actual 32 ETH.

This is a worse outcome for Nimbus than not having nightlies.

Author: Counterpoint:

![img](https://i.imgur.com/mRwyCwq.png)

Reviewer: Can we resolve this?

![](https://i.imgur.com/6wuvM2d.png)

Click on the `tar.gz` file that corresponds to your OS and architecture, unpack the archive, read the README and run the binary directly (or through one of our provided wrapper scripts).

We've designed the build process to be reproducible. In practice, this means that anyone can verify that these exact binaries were produced from the corresponding source code commits. For more about the philosophy and importance of this feature see [reproducible-builds.org](https://reproducible-builds.org/).

> For instructions on how to reproduce those binaries, see "README.md" inside the archive.

Reviewer: could we link directly to the README here?

Author: No, because there is no README to link to. That's just a template that needs some search and replace before it becomes a tarball-specific README.

> **N.B.** These binaries are meant to run as a service. As such, they do not

> support the `log-file` [option](./options.md) because duplicating stdout to a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
support the `log-file` [option](./options.md) - duplicating stdout to a
```

> log file would complicate things in that scenario. We recommend capturing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
log file would complicate things. We recommend capturing
```
